Face Detection
--------------
Face detection is a computer technology being used in a variety of applications that identifies human faces in digital images. The project aims to develop an algorithm for real-time face detection and implement it by developing an application for android platform. Face detection can be regarded as a specific case of object-class detection. In object-class detection, the task is to find the locations and sizes of all objects in an image that belong to a given class.

Implementation
--------------
OpenCV libraries (VideoCapture) were made use of capturing real-time videos. The captured video is converted into gray-scale frame by frame. The next task was to define the face cascade. Haar-cascades algorithm: This algorithm is popularly referred to as Viola-Jones face detector and its effectiveness is due to the robust real-time processing capabilities. Training of the system is done by using a set of labeled images containing faces using the AdaBoost learning algorithm by Freund and Schapire. For rapid processing, an idea called integral images is used. OpenCV has an xml file which defines the parameter values of the Haar-cascade. The xml file has been attached with the project folder. The parameter values are set as scaleFactor=1.1, minNeighbors=5,            minSize=(30, 30) in the cascade multiscale. When the face object(s) has been detected, it would be marked by drawing red rectangles around the face. 
The whole algorithm is implemented in Python. In order to develop android application in python, Kivy module is needed to be installed. Pygame module is a prerequisite for Kivy module. Kivy has built in functionalities for camera capture which has not been used in this project as OpenCV libraries were preferred. A Kivy class is defined namely SimpleKivy and the face detection algorithm is included as a function of the class so that when the app is called, the function will be automatically run. The UI for the android app is also designed using the python script.
Once the Kivy python application was ready, there were several steps in building the same as an android application. For this Buildozer had to be installed. Buildozer is a tool for creating application packages easily. The goal is to have one "Buildozer.spec" file in your app directory, describing your application requirements and settings such as title, icon, included modules etc. Buildozer will use that spec to create a package for Android and other operating systems. The scipts in Buildozer spec has to be edited to change the settings of the application. When the bulldozer spec file is ready, the command- “buildozer android debug deploy run” had to be run on the Ubuntu terminal. This will convert the Kivy application to android apk and save in the project folder. This APK can be run on android devices.
